index.md, before:

## Portfolio

---

### Summer Internship / Work Experience

[Python Intern | Technocolabs](pdf/Technocolabs_CertificateofCompletion.pdf)
<br>
_Intern_
<br>
• Built a full stack weather app to display all kinds of weather data, from temperatures, to wind speeds, to humidity
levels.
<br>
• Followed the Iterative Enhancement Model for the making of the project
<br>
• Completed all the assigned tasks before the stipulated timeline and bagged a [Letter of Recommendation](pdf/Technocolabs_LOR.pdf)
<br>
•Tech Stack : PyOWM API, Python, Streamlit and Matplotlib

---

### PROJECTS

- [URL Shortner](https://github.com/ComputerScientist-01/URL-Shortner)
  <br>
  - It works by transforming any long URL into a shorter, more readable link.
  - Generates a random new URL for any given link
  - A minimalistic front end for a better user experience
  - Collaborated with other open source peers to implement the new feature of generating a QR code for the links
  - Tech Stack : NodeJS, ExpressJS,MongoDB
    <br>
- [Sorting Visualizer](https://github.com/ComputerScientist-01/Sorting-Visualizer)
  <br>

  - Visualizes the internals of algorithms
  - Shows the sorting in real time with animations
  - Implemented various stable sorting algorithms
  - Collaborated with other open source peers to fix the issues and implement few sorting algorithms
    <br>

- [Weather App](https://github.com/ComputerScientist-01/Weather-app-heroku)
  <br>

  - A fullstack python app to get various weather updates
  - Used Matplotlib for creating bar graphs and line graphs
  - Used the Python Open weather Map API to fetch all the data
  - Tech Stack : Python,Streamlit frontend
    <br>

---

### Certifications

- [Python (basic)](https://www.hackerrank.com/certificates/82e11e057e02)
  <br>
  _Hackerrank_
  <br>
  The test covered topics like Scalar Types, Operators and Control Flow, Strings,
  Collections and Iteration, Modularity, Objects and Types and Classes

- [Problem Solving (basic)](https://www.hackerrank.com/certificates/5016c47753f8)
  <br>
  _Hackerrank_
  <br>
  • The test covered basic topics of Data Structures (such as Arrays, Strings) and
  Algorithms (such as Sorting and Searching).

---

### COURSES

- [Programming for Everybody (Getting Started with Python)](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/BJE7QHW5QNXW) - Coursera
- [Build Your Portfolio Website with HTML and CSS](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/KD8AUYY6HFHG) - Coursera
- [Open Source Software Development Methods](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/QSKY4H9BLRHN) - Coursera
- [Practical Introduction to the Command Line](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/L6AVX9JJVM94) - Coursera
- [Multiple Linear Regression with scikit-learn](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/TNG9ECTE7WQ9) - Coursera
- [Object-Oriented Data Structures in C++](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/Q9G6YCJ8A7B6) - Coursera
- [Neural Networks and Deep Learning](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/KF9CEDD7VEBE) - Coursera
- [Create Your First Game with Python](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/D7STFJ9GE6UW) - Coursera
- [Building Web Applications in PHP](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/34W4CMP7YD5Q) - Coursera
- [Data Science Math Skills](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/N2HH8E2AHVLA) - Coursera
- [Python Data Structures](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/K5PULQ5MS8ML) - Coursera

---

### Hackathons

- ### Hack Jaipur 2020
  Our group's idea was to use summarization methods for an office environment. It is used to summarize meetings by
  converting speech to text. The text file is then sent to the summarizer to generate a summary. We have also built an
  optical character recognition system so that we can extract text data from PDF and convert it to a text file and this text
  file will also be fed to the summarizer
  <br>

---

### SKILLS

- C/c++
- Python
- MySQL
- Javascript
- HTML/CSS
- NodeJS
- ExpressJS
- MongoDB

Commit message:

Add Achievements : Active GitHub contributions

index.md, after:

## Portfolio

---

### Summer Internship / Work Experience

[Python Intern | Technocolabs](pdf/Technocolabs_CertificateofCompletion.pdf)
<br>
_Intern_
<br>
• Built a full stack weather app to display all kinds of weather data, from temperatures, to wind speeds, to humidity
levels.
<br>
• Followed the Iterative Enhancement Model for the making of the project
<br>
• Completed all the assigned tasks before the stipulated timeline and bagged a [Letter of Recommendation](pdf/Technocolabs_LOR.pdf)
<br>
•Tech Stack : PyOWM API, Python, Streamlit and Matplotlib

---

### PROJECTS

- [URL Shortner](https://github.com/ComputerScientist-01/URL-Shortner)
  <br>
  - It works by transforming any long URL into a shorter, more readable link.
  - Generates a random new URL for any given link
  - A minimalistic front end for a better user experience
  - Collaborated with other open source peers to implement the new feature of generating a QR code for the links
  - Tech Stack : NodeJS, ExpressJS,MongoDB
    <br>
- [Sorting Visualizer](https://github.com/ComputerScientist-01/Sorting-Visualizer)
  <br>

  - Visualizes the internals of algorithms
  - Shows the sorting in real time with animations
  - Implemented various stable sorting algorithms
  - Collaborated with other open source peers to fix the issues and implement few sorting algorithms
    <br>

- [Weather App](https://github.com/ComputerScientist-01/Weather-app-heroku)
  <br>

  - A fullstack python app to get various weather updates
  - Used Matplotlib for creating bar graphs and line graphs
  - Used the Python Open weather Map API to fetch all the data
  - Tech Stack : Python,Streamlit frontend
    <br>

---

### Certifications

- [Python (basic)](https://www.hackerrank.com/certificates/82e11e057e02)
  <br>
  _Hackerrank_
  <br>
  The test covered topics like Scalar Types, Operators and Control Flow, Strings,
  Collections and Iteration, Modularity, Objects and Types and Classes

- [Problem Solving (basic)](https://www.hackerrank.com/certificates/5016c47753f8)
  <br>
  _Hackerrank_
  <br>
  • The test covered basic topics of Data Structures (such as Arrays, Strings) and
  Algorithms (such as Sorting and Searching).

---

### COURSES

- [Programming for Everybody (Getting Started with Python)](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/BJE7QHW5QNXW) - Coursera
- [Build Your Portfolio Website with HTML and CSS](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/KD8AUYY6HFHG) - Coursera
- [Open Source Software Development Methods](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/QSKY4H9BLRHN) - Coursera
- [Practical Introduction to the Command Line](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/L6AVX9JJVM94) - Coursera
- [Multiple Linear Regression with scikit-learn](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/TNG9ECTE7WQ9) - Coursera
- [Object-Oriented Data Structures in C++](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/Q9G6YCJ8A7B6) - Coursera
- [Neural Networks and Deep Learning](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/KF9CEDD7VEBE) - Coursera
- [Create Your First Game with Python](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/D7STFJ9GE6UW) - Coursera
- [Building Web Applications in PHP](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/34W4CMP7YD5Q) - Coursera
- [Data Science Math Skills](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/N2HH8E2AHVLA) - Coursera
- [Python Data Structures](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/K5PULQ5MS8ML) - Coursera

---

### Hackathons

- ### Hack Jaipur 2020
  Our group's idea was to use summarization methods for an office environment. It is used to summarize meetings by
  converting speech to text. The text file is then sent to the summarizer to generate a summary. We have also built an
  optical character recognition system so that we can extract text data from PDF and convert it to a text file and this text
  file will also be fed to the summarizer
  <br>

---


### Achievements

- ### Among top 100 Active contributors on Github in India (2020-2021) 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/39644109/159262702-4aa9eacf-3ed4-4fab-b5e7-5e1f80600ce7.png)
![link](https://commits.top/india.html)
  <br>


### SKILLS

- C/c++
- Python
- MySQL
- Javascript
- HTML/CSS
- NodeJS
- ExpressJS
- MongoDB
